Hi! Welcome back!
The last Weekly Review was quite efficient, because I encouraged everyone to register to vote,
and I'm glad that it worked.
The last time I encouraged people to register to vote, it was 3 days before the deadline,
and 49,000 people went to register at the last minute.
So... I wrote a letter in order to ask for the registration deadline to be postponed,
because if so many people went to register at the last minute, then more people could probably do the same.
And... I didn't receive any answer. None!
It's a pity, because it could be done with a simple decree. It just takes a few minutes,
and it would enable thousands of more people to vote.
But I'm not really surprised, because the attitude of the government is curious as far as elections are concerned.
They didn't seem very interested in enabling people to vote.
Besides, the elections of union representatives in very small businesses are taking place right now.
You may not be aware of it if you did not watch the last Review,
but this Mrs. El Khomry - who forced her labor law into the legislature -
well she organized these elections in the middle of the festive season!
She did everything she could to make these elections fail!
I hope everyone will vote, because it is almost the only collective right that an employee can assert in a very small business.
OK.
I'm talking about this because I'll be in Tourcoing next Sunday.
We are going to "turn up" in the city, that's the expression we used.
It may seem strange, but "turning up" is not the same as marching, it means arriving somewhere, as they say.
We are doing this because a recent event occurred in Tourcoing that shocked a lot of my acquaintances,
so I decided to talk about it.
A cashier had a miscarriage at her workplace.
So...
A miscarriage is a very traumatic experience  both physically and psychologically,
so I understand why it moved a lot of people.
Besides she's young, so a lot of people identify with her, and think it is not normal to be ill-treated like that.
The demands and distress of employees are never taken into account.
Do you remember Emeline, the mailwoman? Well it was the same.
She was at work and she said: "I'm not feeling well, I need to go home".
"No, no, you stay there, back to work!" and bam! she had a stroke.
I think these incidents should alarm staff managers.
They should wonder if they do what they have to do to make employees happy at their workplace
and to avoid putting them in danger.
But today's management consists in intimidating employees.
"You'll go back home when I'll say you can!"
"You'll go to the toilets when I'll say you can!"...
etc.
People are afraid of complaining, because their job is their only income. They just don't have a choice!
They are forced to put up with it, but at some point, someone has to collapse either physically or mentally.
This is the reason why we'll be in Tourcoing next Sunday.
I'll speak about working conditions at the municipal theater.
I think it is important that a candidate who runs for president speak about issues that concern a lot of people's life in this country.
People go through silent sufferings because no one ever talks about employees' working conditions.
People at the top of the country's media superstructure don't really care.
But we have to admit that this Auchan affair in Tourcoing had a strong mediatic impact, because there's been a lot of articles about it,
articles about the working conditions of supermarket cashiers in particular,
who get all sorts of occupational diseases because of the weight of the articles they lift.
You'd think it's not much - just a few packets of chewing gums and a packet of crisps - but they do it all day long,
and when clients rush at the checkout, they have to lift and carry a lot of articles, and it  can be painful.
So this issue has to be taken seriously. Think about it when you go shopping!
When you see the cashier - who's more often a woman than a man - think about all he or she has to do,
and it doesn't cost much to say 'thank you', 'hello' and 'goodbye', I think they'll appreciate, believe me!
OK, so... this incident occurred in an Auchan supermarket.
Auchan is a company that belongs to the AFM. Do you know what the AFM is?
It is the Mulliez Family Association.
It is a sort of shareholding and family communism.
It's not for me to say bad things about such and such person, but I think that this family is going a bit too far.
Because...
They don't pay taxes in France to begin with.
And I don't like that.
They do business in France, their employees were educated in France and get medical care in France,
so they should pay taxes in France.
They should do as every French does.
I was told that I could do nothing about this because their tax household was declared in Belgium.
I know this, they live right on the border with France.
Someone wrote down to me how much they pay, and they don't pay much, really not.
But...
Let's tell it like it is.
The police led searches in some of their properties last May
because apparently, tax authorities do not agree with the tax returns of the different entities of the AFM.
So this family is facing this problem, but there's a new problem on the horizon: me.
If I become President, you may go wherever you want,
be it the very depths of Patagonia or a recess of Mongolia, but I'll be there!
Why? Because we will change the income tax legislation.
We will implement the taxation of expatriates.
This means that wherever you live in the world, you pay taxes in the country you live in,
but you also send your income tax return to French tax authorities.
Tax authorities then compare what you paid abroad and what you should have paid if you lived in France,
and you have to pay the difference to French tax authorities.
So what's the reason for this proposition? And where does this idea come from?
Americans do this, so you can't say it is an insane left-wing idea!
Let me tell you that North-Americans take this very seriously.
They call banks in every country to make investigations if they have the least suspicion of "americanity" about one of their clients.
How do I know this? Well it's because the people I know are those who work, and not those who give orders.
So I was informed about this by people working in the banking sector.
The USA don't want to lose a penny, and they're right!
Well I'll do exactly the same!
I know this system which consists in reporting one's income and paying taxes in one place
and then sending one's income tax return to your country's tax authorities, that work out if you owe them money.
Do you know why I know this? Well it's simple, I'm a Euro MP, so this system applies to me, and it's a good thing!
I report my income to the European Union that taxes part of it,
and then I send my income tax return to French tax authorities that work out how much I owe them
based on what I would pay if I was a normal taxpayer in France, and it's a good thing!
That's not all!
Those who would not like to pay their taxes in France...
- I don't know what sorts of scheme they'll come up with in the future because it will become difficult -
well I want to warn them: I don't agree with the fact that French citizens do business in France if they pay their taxes abroad.
I'll put an end to this!
But let us calm down.
We will implement the taxation of expatriates, and the members of the Mulliez family will therefore be able to cross the border again
in order to live in their country, except if they want to keep living in Belgium because they love their house,
or because they love the landscape, or because they live far from a road.
I'm saying this because I read that living close to a road increased the risks of insanity.
That's the way it is. It is due to toxic particles in the air.
This was a half joke to bring this matter to a close.
What I mean is that we have been putting up with all the whims of billionaires and shareholders of the Paris Stock Exchange for 15 years,
- 15 years! -
and now we see the result: there are more millionaires today, and rich people got even richer!
But there are also more poor people. They are 9 million in this country!
And in Germany - that is supposed to be our economic ideal - they are 13 million!
In addition to poverty... which comes from an absolutely barbaric way of producing and exchanging,
since only a few people accumulate while the rest have nothing! That's barbarism!
But above all, it makes people suffer at work at every level of society, everywhere!
We have to make a lot of money quickly with the smallest possible number of employees, so...
I intend to talk about the concerns of employees in this presidential campaign.
I hear a lot of candidates who say: "I am the candidate of labor! I'll speak to you about labor!" Well get to work!
Of course we will talk about labor, about the content of labor, that is, skills and qualifications,
but we must also think about employees as human beings, which means that we have to talk about human beings.
We can't just talk about broad issues, that are all the more easy to deal with that they are broad.
As a conclusion, I found out about what this family was doing... They own Auchan and many other companies.
It's a large group! It's the 13th largest distribution group in the world!
There are many French distribution companies in the world.
The Mulliez group does a lot of business in France. I think they own around 126 supermarkets in the country.
They also do a lot of business in Russia!
You see, there's a difference between what they say in their newspapers and what they actually do.
I said 'their newspapers' because I thought about something as I was reading my notes:
this family owns a school of journalism. Can you believe it?
Well yes, they own a school of journalism!
It is possible to own one! They own a school of journalism as you could own a horse, a house or a bike.
Besides, it's not just any school of journalism, it's the most important school of the country!
Incidentally, these schools of journalism may have qualities, but they produce the same kind of journalists,
that is, journalists who always ask the same questions,
and whatever your answers, they stick to the questions they had planned to ask.
Now this won't last long.
If I become President, I'll definitely reform these schools of journalism.
First, journalists should not always be those who attended these schools.
You might be surprised to hear me say that, but in my day, people with different occupations could become journalists.
They brought something different to editorial commitees humanly speaking.
They were not the same fish sticks with identical sizes and packagings that we know today.
As to the degrees awarded by these schools,
they should at least be as serious as the rest of our country's professional degrees.
When you're a plumber or a zinc worker for instance,
you choose a boilermaker training program to get a certificate or a diploma
- it's not the easiest training program by the way, because you sometimes have to make objects within a micron! -
and there's a syllabus that says such job requires such and such skills.
And it's not someone sitting in his office who decides the requirements on his own,
but it's a commission made up of representatives from the Ministry of Education,
of labor unions and of employer representatives - in short, people who know their business!
That's the way it happens, except for journalists!
They attend schools and get degrees, but what is the guarantee that these degrees are worth something?
Well it's simply the reputation of these schools!
So the schools that manage to make some good publicity and to fit as many students as possible in newspapers are considered good schools.
Do you understand where their reputation comes from now? Good!
Well this situation is not serious, because this occupation is fundamental to the functioning of democracy.
Now the news was marked by the consequences of the situation in Syria this week.
You know that this is a tricky issue for me,
because whatever I say on the matter, it is always distorted in the media...
to make gutter journalism...
That's the way it is...
For instance the other day, I was interviewed by France Inter radio, and I was asked questions about Trump.
At some point, I said I'd like to work with the guy because he intends to put an end to free-trade international agreements.
It suits me fine because I have been opposing the free trade agreement with the USA since 1996, so...
if the President of the USA himself wants to stop it, then I'm OK with it.
Well they made a headline that said something like "Mélenchon would be glad to work with Donald Trump".
As you can see, journalism is serious business...
Anyway, what matters is the agreement.
The agreement that was signed is a ceasefire agreement.
It is an agreement between Turkey and Russia.
Isn't it curious?
We were told that this war opposed "moderate rebels"...
meaning they are... moderate!
moderate...
...to Bashar Al Assad's government.
They were supposed to be the belligerents, but who signed a ceasefire agreement?
Turkey and Russia!
I don't get it!
I thought the belligerents were "moderate rebels" and Mr. Al Assad, but it turns out that Turkey and Russia signed the ceasefire agreement!
What's going on?
Were we lied to? Were we deceived?
So this war is not a war between moderate rebels and the government, or a religious war, as they said,
but a war between countries? Well yes!
And that's what I have been saying since the beginning!
We could have stopped the war months ago if we had adressed the issue from a realistic standpoint.
We should have had the belligerents come to the table.
They are fighting this war because they are regional powers,
and because they want to have access to the strategic raw material of our time: oil and gas.
Instead, we were told a story that must be utterly incomprehensible to people who are trying to understand the situation.
They wonder why it was Turkey and Russia that signed the agreement.
Anyway, I'm happy that this agreement was signed.
A ceasefire means that bombings will stop. There aren't any clean bombings! Clear bombings never existed anywhere!
Neither in Aleppo nor Mossul, or in Yemen,
or in France, when Americans bombed the Normandy shores to dislodge the Germans,
wiping several cities off the map in the process.
So you see, clean bombings never existed and will never exist.
The UNO resolution that approves the ceasefire and that furthers the ideas implied by the ceasefire was adopted unanimously, OK?
So if you want to know my position on the subject, well it is the position of the UNO that was adopted unanimously.
It is possible that warmongers in some editorial boards wish to carry on this... thing...
because they keep writing articles that say the only problem is Russia.
Anyway, my position is the unanimous decision of the UNO.
The UNO says that we have to organize negotiations betweens the belligerents of the war.
But that's not all!
The UNO made a list of the belligerents that should not take part in the negotiations, not bad hey?
The UNO says there has to be negotiations, but they should not include several belligerents.
Who are these belligerents? ISIS, Al Nusra and Al Qaeda.
Al Nusra and Al Qaeda were the "moderate rebels" who fought in Aleppo,
but the unanimous UNO resolution says that we should not negotiate with them but make war on them.
So I agree with this agreement that should restore peace,
provided that the negotiations continue, and that troublemakers do not disturb this process.
I think the poor Syrians have had enough, so it is time to stop this war.
We can do this if we organize a serious discussion, but what then?
Well... what can we do?
What's the idea? What do you think we can do?
Elections!
Do you know another way to choose a government?
So we have to organize elections!
But some people say it's not possible because there's a war!
Well that's precisely why we have to stop it!
There's a ceasefire, and it could lead to peace.
Organizing election consists in sending refugees back into their country...
If they don't, we can make a list of Syrians abroad - we do this in France, so why would it not be possible with other countries?
And then we have to make electoral registers in Syria.
International organizations know how to do this, it's not complicated!
Making electoral registers and organizing elections is more simple
than making war, bombing and transporting military equipment!
Making war is ten times more complicated than organizing elections!
So don't tell me that it is a utopia and that it is not possible!
It is possible!
Besides, the UNO resolution says that all the issues - the issue of the Bashar Al Assad's regime included - have to be settled by elections.
My guess is that now that Turkey obtained what it wanted,
and that Russia keeps the Tartus military base there - their only military base in the Mediterranean! -
well...
we'll be able to find a democratic solution,
and of course, it's up to the Syrian people to decide if they want to maintain Bashar Al Assad in office,
and I think it is not so crazy to say that the Syrian people would probably want to move on
if we guarantee the possibility of doing it.
I've been saying from the beginning.
But there's an absolutely crazy atmosphere these days.
Some people are acting as if this was the Cold War, but this situation has nothing to do with the Cold War!
The USSR no longer exists!
Russia is a capitalist power as other countries.
I read articles about the so-called rearmament of Russia...
Did you know that Saudi Arabia's military budget was bigger than Russia's?
Can you imagine how big military budgets are?
The biggest military budget after the USA is China's budget.
So you can see that this state of agitation is designed to scare people
and to make them think there is a danger that actually does not exist.
Russia doesn't have any intention to invade any country in Europe.
Likewise, I don't think that China intends to invade any country.
Besides, the USA are changing their strategy, and I think that a lot of people are going to feel stupid,
and I mean big time!
They've been living under the American nuclear umbrella for 50 years, and they think it will last forever.
Well it won't! North-Americans changed their mind!
Until now, they were allied with China in order to thwart Russia's influence.
And now, Mr. Trump is not crazy at all, he is acting rationally.
That's his choice, not mine, but he now wants to form an alliance with Russia
because China is becoming a problem for the USA, since it will become the leading world power.
Consequently, the Yuan is becoming a threat to the Dollar.
This is the real situation!
This will soon become a soap-opera in the official media, and you'll see that when Trump takes office,
he will put an end to the retaliation measures against Russia.
Europeans will feel stupid - and they are! - because they are still imposing these measures on Russia,
although we Europeans paid the price for these sanctions against Russia, in agriculture in particular.
And you'll see that it will be the same old story again: the Chinese will become the new devil,
and for some newspapers it already is.
As for us, let's stay calm and keep our cool.
We must analyze the situation and take sides, and our side is France!
We must look at the situation from a French standpoint and our interest is peace, not war!
We don't want a war in Europe, with Russia or with any country!
We want peace, not war!
Therefore, we must do everything we can to calm things down everywhere,
and to do that, one of the things we have to do
is to denounce those who turn up the heat, be they motivated by self-interest or financial interest, or because it is their job.
Can you realize, people?
What we called the Cold War is over.
Many of you did not live during this period.
During that time, there was a risk of a total war between the Eastern and Western Blocs.
The Eastern Bloc collapsed,
but the Western military alliance still exists, its name is NATO.
In any case, the great confrontation is over!
Over!
And guess what?
The global military budget increased by 30%!
The two Blocs no longer fight one another, but the global military budget increased by 30%!
Don't you feel that there's an atmosphere of private interests, of military-industrial complex?
Of course there is!
War is above all good business for some people.
And when war begins, it is nothing but a series of organized crimes!
Enough with tall tales!
OK friends, I got a present from Youtube that I want to show you.
Since a lot of you gave me the blue thumbs up and subscribed, we are now 100,000 subscribers!
We're even more, we are 150,000 subscribers now!
As a result, I got a present from Youtube that I want to show you!
It is the trophy of the 100,000 subscribers.
They had the bad taste of writing it in English, so I refuse to read it on principle, but I understand what that means.
It is a reward for reaching 100,000 subscribers,
so I told my staff that since we reached 150,000 subscribers, then I should get another one when I'll reach 200,000 subscribers.
Well not at all!
I need to reach 1M subscribers to get the next trophy...
I think it will be difficult to reach that step.
OK, so let's move on.
Of course, keep subscribing and keep giving me the blue thumbs up, it helps me a lot!
Now I want to tell you that I'll do a new FAQ video, so send your questions and I'll answer them.
And I want to thank you in advance because tha last FAQ helped me a lot.
It was a success because it's been viewed more than 300,000 times,
but it helped me to clarify some points that didn't seem problematic to me, and your questions helped me realize it.
As you know, I'm leading this battle, and we are now entering the heated period of the presidential campaign.
In a few weeks, we will know who will be the candidate of the Socialist Party if they do have one.
And then the campaign will begin.
Huh... Well...
There are now 180,000 people who support my candidacy.
I'd really like to reach 200,000 supporters by mid-January, because it is a round number,
and it gives teeth to the campaign.
I know that those who follow this channel...
Some of you just watch because they want to hear a different point of view and...
It's normal! They're not asking for more, and I perfectly understand that.
But some of you share the ideal I fight for,
and maybe they did not think about signing the petition to support mu candidacy on the "jlm2017.fr" website.
As long as you share my ideas, it would do me a great service if you did it.
I think it would give teeth to this campaign, and I want to thank you in advance.